=for html <h4><a href="../uwe.html">Uwe Ohse homepage</a></h4>
<h3><a href="../upgpverify.html">upgpverify</a></h3>

=head1 NAME

	 upgprules - compile rules for upgpverify

=head1 SYNOPSIS

upgpverify CDB TMP [INPUT]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<upgpverify> verifies, if told to do so, whether the signing key
matches the rules in I<CDB>.

B<upgprules> compiles the rules in I<INPUT> (or stdin) into I<CDB>,
a binary format suited for quick access by B<upgpverify>.

B<upgprules> can be used while B<upgpverify> is running. It ensures that cdb
is updated atomically. It does this by first writing the rules to tmp
and then moving tmp on top of cdb. If tmp already exists, it is
destroyed. The directories containing cdb and tmp must be writable to
tcprules; they must also be on the same filesystem.

If there is a problem with the input or with tmp, B<upgprules> complains
and leaves cdb alone.

The binary cdb format is portable across machines.

=head1 RULE FORMAT

I<INPUT> lines starting with a hash (#) are ignored, as are empty
lines. All other lines are rules.

Each rule consists of an identification, a colon, an instruction
and a list of environment variable assignments.

=head2 Identifications

An identification is a tag character followed by a star (*) symbol
and a free-form string. The later must not contain a colon (:).

The tag character is used to distinguish the five different kinds of 
identifications, which are listed in order of preference:

=over 4

=item f

A I<fingerprint>, only available if GNU privacy guard (gpg) is used.

=item l

A I<long key id>, only available if GNU privacy guard (gpg) is used.

=item s

A I<short key id>.

=item u

A I<User ID>: A free-form string. Note that the I<User ID> may
be choosen freely by an attacker (so watch out what you are doing).

=item a

An I<email address>. I<upgpverify> parses the user id of the signing
key and looks up every email address found in it against the database.

=back

The preference mentioned above is my personal preference. While the
email address may be quite handy it's important B<not> to forget
that strange things might happen if you accept a public key which
contains the email address of someone else - who might have more
rights than the owner of the key (this also applies, to a lesser
degree, to the user ID).

=head2 Instructions

There are two:

=over 4

=item allow

=item deny

=back 

=head2 Environment Variable Assignments

An environment variable assignment contains a comma (,),
a variable name, an equal sign (=), a quote character,
a value and another quote character. The quote character
may be choosen freely. Another assignment may follow.

The general form of an assignment is B<,var="value">, where
I<"> may be any character not found in I<value>.

=head1 EXAMPLE

    upgprules etc/rules.cdb etc/rules.t <<EOF
    a*uwe@ohse.de:allow,why=%address%
    s*71EC423D:allow,why="short key id"
    s*5B86ABE571EC423D:allow,why="long key id"
    u*Uwe Ohse (RSA) <uwe@ohse.de>:allow,why=%uid%
    f*D1076FB6107A40F11DD9E6C67336FF68:allow,why=/fingerprint/
	EOF

=head1 AUTHOR

Uwe Ohse

=begin man

=head1 SEE ALSO

upgprules(8)

=end

